Our text today is very encouraging as it reminds us through this example of Amos that Jehovah notices the potential of each one of his servants.
In fact, one of the comments from today's text states,
even though we may lack self-confidence, Jehovah can help us go beyond our perceived limits and reach goals that we would not have imagined.
See, Jehovah knows our potential.
But you note from that statement, this is also a reminder that we have to put forth effort to reach our potential.
You see, if we're not careful, we can sabotage our own efforts to reach the potential that Jehovah sees in us.
How's that possible? Well, let's look at three examples.
Number one, we can limit potential by not throwing ourselves into what we are asked to do.
We may remember the account of Jehoash, the King of Israel, there in 2nd Kings chapter 13,
when he visited the prophet Elisha, who was dying, and you notice there in 2nd Kings chapter 13 and verse 17,
that Elisha notes Jehoash's potential.
You notice he says there that you will strike down Syria until you finish it off.
See, he noted the potential that he had to finish off Syria, but then what happens?
Well, you remember that's where the King tells the Elisha tells the King to beat the arrows on the ground three times,
or beat it on the ground, and he only does it three times.
Notice what happens in verse 19.
At that, the man of the true God grew indignated him and said,
You should have struck the ground five or six times, then you would have struck down Syria until you finished it off.
But now you will strike down Syria only three times.
What happened? Well, you see, by not throwing himself into what he was asked to do,
showing zeal for his assignment, he would only have limited success.
Jehoash limited his own potential.
Number two, we can limit our potential by focusing on our inadequacies or our insecurities.
And a count that drives that home for me is that of Moses.
If you look in Exodus chapter three, and in this account, we know it's not due to lack of zeal,
but rather Moses' own insecurities that nearly caused him to limit how he was used by Jehovah.
So we know in Exodus chapter three, he received a very weighty assignment going to Pharaoh,
and notice what happens in verse 11, Exodus three, 11.
It says, however, Moses said to the true God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the Israelites out of Egypt?
Now, that's a normal reaction. We probably would have felt the same way. Jehovah, are you sure you have the right person here?
And Jehovah says, No, I do. I will be with you.
You look on verse 13, says, but Moses said to the true God,
Suppose I go to Israel and say to them, the God of your forefathers has sent me to you,
and they say to me, What's his name? What should I say to them?
Jehovah says no problem, and he explains his name even tells him what his name means,
and how that power will be behind him.
Chapter four, in verse one, however, Moses answered,
But suppose they do not believe me, and they do not listen to my voice,
for they'll say Jehovah did not appear to you. No problem, Moses, what's in your hand?
So where he has the staff, he shows him miracles that he can perform to show that Jehovah is behind him.
Look at verse 10.
Moses now said to Jehovah, Pardon me, Jehovah, but I have never been a fluent speaker,
neither in the past nor since you spoken to your servant, where I am slow of speech and slow of tongue.
Okay, Moses, who created the mouth? I'll speak for you. Don't worry about it.
Look at verse 13.
But he says pardon me, Jehovah, please send anyone whom you want to send.
And notice what says in verse 14.
Then Jehovah's anger blazed against Moses.
Fine, you know, I'm going to just send somebody else.
But thankfully, Moses got the point and he jumped into the assignment,
who's used further by Jehovah. But what happened here?
You notice Moses got caught up worrying about his inadequacies,
worrying about all the things that could go wrong.
Jehovah is saying just get moving and I will take care of the rest.
And Jehovah saw that Moses had the potential to carry out this assignment.
However, Moses was limiting himself.
At number three, we can limit our own potential by becoming paralyzed by fear.
Fear of failure. If you turn to the account in numbers, chapter 13,
we notice that this is what happened to the 10 spies.
It's very interesting a phrase they use when they came back from spying out the land.
Number, chapter 13, and look at verse 33.
It says, and there we saw the Nephilim, the sons of anach who are from the Nephilim.
And in comparison, we seem like grasshoppers and notice both to us and to them.
You see, they ran into these sons of anach who were giants,
men of extraordinary size, who inhabited the mountainous region of Canaan.
And it was understandable that these enemies of Jehovah view the Israelites as puny,
grasshoppers, you can just squash them and no competition.
But you know, the 10 spies saw themselves the same way.
And see, their view of themselves and the situation paralyzed them with fear
and caused them to demoralize the entire nation.
But now, in contrast, we think of the account of David,
who has a young man also encountered a giant Goliath.
And remember, Goliath also saw David as a dispenseless little boy
and as a grasshopper, if you will.
But did David see himself the same way?
Now, he says, you're coming to me with sword and spear.
I'm coming to you with the name of Jehovah.
You see, David did not allow himself to be paralyzed by fear.
He trusted in Jehovah and David lived up to the potential that Jehovah saw in him.
So what's the lesson for us?
Well, the lesson is, is this illustrate, these accounts illustrate,
that sometimes we can be our own worst enemy of times.
See, lack of zeal, not throwing ourselves into the work as in the case of Jehoash
or our own insecurities as in the case of Moses or fear of failure
as in the case of the 10 spies can cause us to limit the potential
that Jehovah sees in us.
So what do we do?
Well, Jehovah's words to Gideon remind us of what we can do.
And we invite you to turn to judges chapter six.
And you remember that for seven years, the Midianites oppressed the nation of Israel.
And Jehovah's angel appears to Gideon, says that he's going to deliver Israel
out of this wicked nation.
How could he possibly succeed?
We read the accounting Gideon saw himself as the least significant one of his father's house.
And he said to his father's house was the least significant family of the tribe of Manasseh.
But yet Jehovah saw the potential that Gideon had.
And what did Jehovah tell him to do?
Look at judges chapter six and verse 14.
It says, Jehovah faced him and said,
Go with the strength you have.
And you will save Israel out of Midian's hand.
Is it not I who sent you?
Interesting.
Go with the strength you have.
I know you cannot do it on your own strength.
Just get moving.
Throw everything you can into it.
And I, Jehovah, will make up the difference.
See, that's what Jehovah is saying.
And that's exactly what happened.
So may we be determined to do the same.
We know that none of us accomplished Jehovah's work on our own strength,
on our own wisdom, on our own abilities.
But when we receive an assignment,
we need to just start moving.
Do not let our inadequacies paralyze us.
Do not let fear of failure paralyze us.
Throw ourselves into the work. Have a zeal for the work.
Go with the strength that you have.
Trust in Jehovah to make up the difference.
And you will live up to the potential
that Jehovah sees in you.